# Exonum Python Light Client

Python client for [Exonum Framework][exonum].

## Overview

Exonum light client is Python library for working with Exonum blockchain 
from the client side and can be easily integrated to an existing 
application. Also, Exonum light client provides access to common utils 
toolkit which contains some helpful functions for hashing, cryptography,
serialization etc.

## Capabilities
By using the client you are able to perform the following operations:

- Submit transactions to the node
- Receive transaction information 
- Receive blockchain blocks information 
- Receive node system information 
- Receive node status information  

## Compatibility
The following table shows versions compatibility:  

| Light Client | Exonum |
|--------------|--------|
| 0.1          | 0.9.*  |
| 0.2          | 0.10.* |

## System dependencies

- Python 3.5 or above.

## Examples

### Exonum Client Initialization
The following example shows how to create the instance of exonum client
which will be able to work with Exonum node which includes 
cryptocurrency service, at `http://localhost:8080` 
address: 

```python
client = ExonumClient("cryptocurrency", "localhost", 8080, 8081, False)
```
- "cryptocurrency" - service name.
- "localhost" - host to communicate with.
- 8080 - listen port of public api. Default value is: 80.
- 8081 - listen port of private api. Default value is: 81.
- False - defines if using ssl connection. Default value is: False.

### Creating Transaction Message
The following example shows how to create the transaction message.

```python
tx_message = ExonumMessage(128, 0, proto_message.SerializeToString())
tx_message.sign(key_pair)
```

- 128 - service id.
- 0 - message id.
- proto_message - instance of class which generated by 
[protobuf compiler][protoc].
- key_pair - public and private keys of ed25519 public-key signature 
system.

After invoking `sign` method we get a signed transaction which is 
ready to be sending into Exonum node.


## License
Apache 2.0 - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for more information.

[exonum]: https://github.com/exonum/exonum
[protoc]: https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/python-generated